
 November 1st, 2005

                   Release Notes for Text Mine 0.2

 This is the second version of Text Mine (version 0.2) tested on Linux 
 and Microsoft Windows). The Perl code from Text Mine uses
 common modules that are available on both platforms. An installer
 for each platform can be used to configure directories,
 load dependent modules, and create and load tables.
 Online documentation is included in the HTML directory under docs.

 Several scripts in the t directory can be used to test Text Mine functions
 from the command line. These scripts can be run independently.
 The web based scripts to test Text Mine are in the cgi-bin directory.

 1. About Text Mine

 Text Mine is a set of packages developed in Perl to implement
 text mining tools for applications. Text mining covers a number of topics
 including - information retrieval, natural language processing,
 search engines, and machine learning.

 There are several tools in the TextMine package. Some of these
 tools can be run from a web based interface and others from the
 command line. The command line tools can be run like any other
 Perl script. A Text Mine userid and password for the MySql database is
 created during installation and the same userid and password must
 be used in the command line scripts.

 The web based interface accepts an userid and password that
 is used to manage session data. Some of the web based scripts 
 to search, manage e-mail, or monitor news will be 
 empty initially. You can load your e-mail or index files using
 scripts in the utils directory. 

 2. TextMine Packages

 Following are some text mining applications you can
 implement using these tools

 2.1	A search engine for images, audio, video and text files
	
	This a basic search engine using an inverted file with
	tokens and associated pointers to files. The tokens in
        the index can be generated automatically or added manually.
        The description for images, audio, and video files is
        generated from the file name. 

	HTML, POD, and text files are tokenized to create the index.
 	The index is searched from a web based form. 

 2.2 	A parts of speech tagger

	Text is tokenized and individual tokens are assigned one
        of 10 tags (conjunction, noun, pronoun, etc.)

 2.3 	Dictionary/thesaurus based on WordNet
	
	WordNet is a package from the Cognitive Science Department,
	Princeton University. Text Mine dictionary tables are
	loaded with data from WordNet and a web based interface
    	is provided to search the tables for words, associations,
	relationships, and examples.

 2.4 	An entity extractor to identify people, places, and organizations

	This function accepts text and returns the tokens and associated
	entity types. Current entity types include person, place, org,
	currency, time, dimension, and tech. A multi-pass extractor
	finds entities in text and attempts to classify them using
	information in database tables.

 2.5 	Clustering function to group together documents based on content

	A genetic algorithm clusters text documents. The text of documents
	is indexed and a similarity matrix is computed. The matrix
	elements are the similarity values between all pairs of
	documents. The genetic algorithm uses the matrix to find
	an arrangement of the documents such that documents that
	are similar to each other are arranged close to each other.
	Clusters are then built around central documents.

 2.6 	Summarizer for web pages and articles

	The text from web pages or articles is split into separate
	text chunks. When the document is well formed ( a news
	article), the text chunks represent sentences from the
	article. For a web page without much punctuation, the text
	chunks are possible sections of text dealing with individual
	sub-topics.

	The text chunks are expanded using their synonyms and then
	clustered. The key text chunks in the top clusters are
	selected for the summary.

 2.7 	A phrase extractor 

	Summarizing the text can be time consuming and a simpler
	approach is to find particular phrases that are mentioned
	often. Phrases are selected based on their likelihood
	probability.

 2.8 	A spider to search the web

	This is a web based spider to search the web. It is
	provided with a set of starting links (pages) and given
	guidelines such as the number of levels, words that
	must appear in the link text, banned sites, and
	the number of URLs to fetch. The pages are fetched
	and saved in a directory. Images can also be optionally
	saved. The results can be searched for particular tokens.

 2.9 	A tool to find sentences in text that may answer questions

	A natural language query is submitted for a
	text repository. The text is scanned for the most likely
	sentence that may answer the question. The question is 
	classified as a person, place, org, or miscellaneous
	question using a neural net.

	Text chunks from the repository are ranked based on how
	closely they match the query and contain the entity that
	the question may require.

 2.10 	A tool to find the closest question in a FAQ for any question

	The Perl FAQ is used an example. It consists of about 300
	questions. A natural language query is submitted and the
	top 10 queries which are 'closest' to the submitted query
	are presented in descending order of similarity.

 2.11 	An archive system to save, search, catalog, and manage e-mails

	Tracking and managing e-mails is a chore. This is not an
	e-mail client. It is a repository to save and organize
	your e-mail. You can search, categorize, and track e-mails
	that have been sent or received. You can also keep distribution
	lists, e-mail IDs and other personal information on your
	local machine.

 2.12 	A news collector and organizer

	News sites update web pages periodically and you can automatically
	download, organize, and search web pages. Since the same news
	is often repeated by different sources, you can build clusters
	around a particular topic and quickly identify key topics
	in the collection.

 3. REQUIREMENTS:

 Apache (Version 1.3.?+), Perl (5.6+), and MySql (3.22+)

 4. INSTALLATION:

 Check the INSTALL file before installation.

 Linux: run install.sh
 Windows: run install.bat 
